Texas Tech International Affairs hosted Culture Fest 2024 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Saturday outside the International Culture Center.

Culture Fest brought the vibrancy of clothes and fabrics from different cultures and shared the importance of cultural representation through cuisine, attire, performances and learning how to write in other languages.

The event hosted many student cultural associations, including the Texas Tech Chinese Club, Spanish Club, Lutheran Student Center, Mediterranean Club and more.

Ghana Student org plays drums

Ghana Student Organization has a impromptu drum performance outside of their booth at the Culture Festival outside of the International Culture Center Oct. 12, 2024.

Jadon Chesnutt
Culture Fest began with the Global Flag Parade Kick Off, led by Matadors do Samba and Group TentaSamba, who performed Brazilian samba.

Flags from different nations and a dragon were hoisted up as the organizations walked from the Museum of Texas Tech to the International Culture Center.

“I think it’s cool to see a gathering of nations I never even knew about celebrate their culture together,” said Thomas Fisher, a Lubbockite. “It’s like I’m not even in Lubbock.”

Booths were set around the Globe outside the International Culture Center. Student associations sold cuisines that represented their individual nations and cultures.

“People come to us trying our food, enjoying it and saying how great this is. That’s something really special,” said Doha, a Ph.D. electrical engineering student from Bangladesh and member of the Bangladesh Association of Students and Scholars.

Ghana Student org plays drums

Ghana Student Organization has a impromptu drum performance outside of their booth at the Culture Festival outside of the International Culture Center Oct. 12, 2024.

Jadon Chesnutt
Many organizations also shared aspects of their culture outside of food.

The Nigerian Student Association's booth explained the country’s three main tribes — Igbo, Yoruba and Hausa — and wore popular attire of each region.

Morocco’s booth shared how pouring tea correlates with how welcomed an individual is.

Performances took place during the festival, such as Tech’s Jinxx Korean Pop dance group who performed to popular Korean songs. The Tech Kahaani Bollywood dance team involved crowd members to learn how to dance like a Bollywood performer.

The festival wasn’t just a way for culture to be spread through Tech, but for minorities to show pride in who they are as individuals and as nations.

“I just want the Lubbock community to know that I'm proud of who I am. I want them to know that we're not different or anything like that. We are just us,” said Alexa Escoto, a sophomore nursing major from Lubbock and member of the Filipino Student Association.