Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce photographed in New York for double date night with Blake Lively and Ryan Reynolds
For the outing, Swift wore her signature red lipstick and was photographed holding hands with Kelce.
Volume Muted Icon
Taylor Swift's glittery face tattoos get fans’ stamp of approval

Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce's latest outing in New York proves they haven't gone out of style.

On Friday, Oct. 11, the couple were spotted arriving to a restaurant in Manhattan to join Swift's friend Blake Lively and the actor's husband, Ryan Reynolds.

During their arrival, the Kansas City Chiefs tight end was photographed looking at Swift with a grin on his face.

Celebrity Sightings in New York City - October 11, 2024
Taylor Swift and Travis Kelce in New York Oct. 11.XNY/Star Max / GC Images
For the outing, Swift wore a Gucci corset top that she paired with a black leather mini skirt and matching black platform boots. Over her outfit, she wore a brown coat and a Dior Saddle bag.

She completed the look with her signature red lipstick and a subtle cat eye.

As for Kelce, he wore a Jacquemus printed shirt that matched his blue pants and white sneakers.

Jill Martin launches new brand starring her bestselling 'perfected' sherpa

Reynolds also wore blue trousers, dressed up with a white button-down top and brown loafers. Lively wore a burgundy red mesh dress, which featured some high slits at the sides.

Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively are seen in New York City. 
Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively are seen in New York City. XNY/Star Max/GC Images
While exiting a restaurant, Lively, Reynolds, Swift and Kelce were bombarded by fans, who waited outside to catch a glimpse of the celebrity couples together.

As they made their way outside, both couples were seen holding hands as they started walking towards their vehicle.


In a video that a fan shared on X, someone in the crowd yelled, "Go Chiefs!" and Kelce appeared to respond with a nod and a smile.

Lively and Reynolds have joined Swift at a Chiefs game before. The couple attended the Chiefs-Jets matchup in New Jersey Oct. 1, 2023. Lively also went to the Super Bowl earlier this year with Swift and cheered on the Chiefs to victory over the San Francisco 49ers.

Swift and Lively previously hung out together in New York in December 2023 when they were spotted celebrating Swift's 34th birthday together on the Lower East Side in New York.

For that occasion, Swift wore a black mini-dress with platform heels by Aquazzura and an Anine Bing Hilary jacket in black faux fur.

Lively twinned with her friend and also wore black. The "It Ends With Us" star donned a Michael Kors Collection dress with black knee-high boots.