San Antonio Philharmonic postpones October concerts

Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window)Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window)Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window)
The San Antonio Philharmonic’s new music director Jeffrey Kahane, speaks to the audience during their performance Friday evening at First Baptist Church.
The San Antonio Philharmonic’s new music director Jeffrey Kahane speaks to the audience during the orchestra's season opening concert at First Baptist Church. The philharmonic has postponed its scheduled October concerts. 
The San Antonio Philharmonic has postponed its upcoming concerts scheduled for Oct. 18-19. The Classics III series concerts were to have featured piano soloist Jon Kimura Parker performing American composer George Gershwin’s Piano Concerto in F.

Never miss San Antonio Report's biggest stories.
Sign up for The Recap, a newsletter rundown of the most important news, delivered every Monday and Thursday.

In a letter to musicians dated Oct. 1 and signed by Executive Director Roberto Treviño and Music Director Jeffrey Kahane, no alternate date for the concerts was given.

The letter cites the reason for the postponement as “in response to the financial impact and challenges that have arisen from a disinformation campaign.” 

Sponsors help underwrite our nonprofit journalism. Sponsor today.
Reached by phone, Treviño declined to discuss that issue. “Our legal team is handling that,” he said.

The letter states that the “pause” in the philharmonic’s third season “will provide us with the essential time needed to navigate these issues effectively, raise the necessary capital, and work toward preserving the integrity of our entire season,” though the letter continues, “it may be difficult to guarantee the full season as initially planned.”

Asked whether receiving $111,055 for fiscal year 2025 from the City of San Antonio — less than a potential addition of $288,945 that was removed from consideration the day prior to City Council’s vote — was a reason for the postponement, Treviño said, “There’s certainly an impact. And so we’re making our adjustments so that we can ensure that we’re planning accordingly, and making sure that we’re creating the best possible chance to put on a full season.”

Treviño said the Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony concert scheduled for Nov. 16-17 at the Majestic Theatre will go on as scheduled. The letter states that the postponement of the October concerts will “allow us the necessary time to address some crucial issues and to plan meticulously.”

The two-year collective bargaining agreement reached with musicians in September allows for postponement and cancellation of concerts as needed, and that musicians are paid per concert as the performances occur, Treviño said.

No members of staff or administration would be furloughed or forego salary during the postponement, Treviño said.

Sponsors help underwrite our nonprofit journalism. Sponsor today.
mom dad_300x250
“This is where staff is really kicking into overdrive to make these adjustments. To study how to be as strategically smart as possible, on our marketing, on our ticket sales, utilizing everything we have available to us to get ourselves ready and set up for some incredible concerts,” he said.

Scheduled concerts include Christopher Cross at the Sunken Garden Theater Dec. 4, Folklórico Nutcracker at the Majestic Dec. 17 and Selena Vive: The Music of Selena Jan. 3.

“We’ve got our work cut out for us,” Treviño said. “Staff is working very hard to make sure people are aware and we can get the ticket sales to every corner of this community. … We’re offering something quite special that this community has been looking for. It’s tailor-made for San Antonio.”