Taylor Rousseau Grigg, a 25-year-old TikToker who made lifestyle content, has died.

Her husband, Cameron Grigg, announced her “sudden and unexpected” loss in an Instagram post Oct. 5 and a GoFundMe, which spoke of her “passing.”

“No one ever expects to have to deal with this kind of pain and heartache, especially at our age,” Cameron Grigg wrote at the start of a lengthy Instagram post.

No official cause of death has been provided.

Grigg had previously opened up to her 1.4 million TikTok followers about her health.


In a TikTok posted Aug. 8, Grigg, she said she was once “very athletic,” but was now “not healthy and in good shape, and haven’t been in a long time.”

Grigg said she “got sick” right after she got married in August 2023. She didn’t find out what was wrong with her until “a few months” prior to posting the 2024 video. 

“You’re seeing me be sick for the whole time that we’re married and not finding out what was wrong until this year… I barely found out what was wrong with me. I was struggling that whole time feeling like I was going to die,” she said. 

Grigg said she felt like she had to “fight for life, to live, to be here.”

“It just sucks because I’m 24 years old, I should be in my prime, I should be able to carry my suitcase up the stairs, I should be able to walk to the mailbox, or run, and those are just things that I can’t really do right now,” she said.

The TikToker, who turned 25 in September, confirmed that she had a diagnosis that she did not share. 

“I was diagnosed by a doctor after a while of not knowing what was wrong with me. I haven’t been diagnosed for very long so I’ve still been struggling with the fact that it’s a ‘forever thing,’” she said. 


She said she wanted to keep the specifics of her “health issues silent” because sharing “makes room for people to leave suggestions and tell me what to do.”

In Cameron Grigg’s Instagram post announcing her death, he said his wife had been “in and out of the hospital since we got married.”

“This past year Taylor has dealt with more pain and suffering than most people do in a lifetime. And in spite of that she still has been such a light and always brought joy to everyone around her,” he said.

Cameron Grigg shared that Taylor Rousseau Grigg would be donating her organs. “Her earthly body is still here with us being ran by machines to keep her organs viable for donation,” his post read.

Spokespeople for the Griggs confirmed to TODAY.com that her organs will be going to children.

“We would love to share that Taylor’s organs will be donated to pediatric children,” representatives wrote in statement shared with TODAY.com. “Taylor would absolutely love to hear this as she has always loved helping others when she could.”

Cameron Grigg also set up a GoFundMe since her illness affected their “financial situation,” he said on Instagram.

Taylor Rousseau Grigg was known on TikTok for content about her life, which often featured her marriage, her dog, her faith and the country lifestyle she led. Her last TikTok, posted on Sept. 26, followed a trip to the vet.

While she never got the chance to speak to her followers again, Cameron addressed her followers in his post announcing her passing, noting that she was no longer in pain.

“She doesn’t owe anyone, anything. But she would want everyone to know that shes (sic) more than OK,” he wrote. “While her earthly body is still here waiting to give the gift of life, we know her spirit is in heaven dancing in the streets made of gold with all her beauty and grace. Her endless shoe/boot collection. And her rhinestones and turquoise jewelry.”