WASHINGTON — The audiences cheered for Kamala Harris during her media blitz this week. So did the talk show hosts posing the questions.

“You’ve gotta win,” Howard Stern told her on his eponymous radio show.

“I personally cannot understand why anyone would vote for him,” Joy Behar, of ABC’s “The View,” said of Donald Trump.

“Would you like to have a beer with me so I can tell people what that’s like?” asked CBS’s Stephen Colbert.

Out came the Miller High Life, and the vice president gamely clinked cans with Colbert and sipped.

Looking to gain ground with crucial voting blocs, Harris shed some of the caution she’s shown since entering the race and sat for a series of interviews, albeit on her own terms with mostly friendly hosts. Her campaign believes the appearances will help introduce her to Americans who never much thought about Harris before she became the presumptive Democratic nominee in July and want to learn more about her life story.

“We’ve seen in polling that people want to get to know her better. They want to see her more, and we’re engaging with that and want to continue to do that” before Election Day, a Harris campaign aide said.

There’s nothing random about the places she's been showing up. Mindful that “The View” is especially popular among female voters, the campaign used Harris’ visit on Tuesday to roll out a new policy proposal meant to help “sandwich generation” households who are caring both for elderly parents and dependent children.

Stern’s audience skews male — a chance for Harris to eat into a core part of Trump’s base. NBC News polling this year showed that only 25% of men aged 18 to 49 held a positive view of Harris, compared to 55% with a negative view.

She needs help wooing young male voters and Stern vouched for her, inviting his millions of listeners to open themselves to the prospect of a female president. Stern is famously raw — he once asked actor Warren Beatty about his toilet routine. In Harris' case he struck an admiring tone, gently drawing her out on her upbringing and career.

He praised the women he's known in positions of authority, saying his “best associations in radio and business have been collaborating with women.” Men, by contrast, “can bull---- their way through it and get away with a lot," he said.

“I’ve been the first woman in almost every position I’ve had,” replied Harris, a former U.S. senator, state attorney general of California and district attorney of San Francisco. “I believe that men and women support women in leadership and that’s been my life experience and that’s why I’m running for president.”

A challenge for Harris is her opponent’s sheer ubiquity. Whether he’s in or out of power, Trump tends to dominate the news cycle, running a presidential campaign that began in 2015 and never really stopped.

Harris has seemed cloistered by contrast, wary of the slip-ups that are always a risk in freewheeling encounters with the media. But four weeks out and the race too close to call, Harris is looking for ways to leapfrog into what the campaign aide called “the front of the conversation.”

Harris dialed into the Weather Channel and then spoke by phone to CNN on Wednesday afternoon, urging Floridians to heed warnings and get out of the path of Hurricane Milton.

She gave an interview to CBS’s “60 Minutes” for an election special that aired Monday. Trump declined the show’s interview request.

And Thursday night Harris is scheduled to take part in a televised town hall event in Las Vegas, hosted by Univision. Taking questions from audience members, Harris will try to make inroads with Hispanic male voters who've aligned themselves with Trump. In two important battleground states, Nevada and Arizona, majorities of Hispanic men under the age of 50 favor Trump over Harris, according to USA TODAY/Suffolk University polling.

Even if voters miss her appearances when they air, they may still catch viral moments that are replayed in their social media feeds, the campaign aide said.

“People may not see it live, but there’s a trickle down of clips — maybe an image of her having a beer with Colbert — that gets disseminated by the campaign and by a lot of folks,” the aide said.

Trump has taken a more unorthodox approach. He has kept a tight focus on his electoral base, making repeated appearances on Fox News and other conservative outlets, along with podcasts that appeal to far-right male listeners.

The conversations can veer in any direction — and often do. Cocaine was discussed at length during Trump’s appearance on a podcast hosted by comedian Theo Von. At one point, Trump asked the host if the drug gives the user a “stronger up.”