“Normalcy.” “A better direction.” “Secured borders.” “Help with inflation.” “Less division.”

Those were among the top answers from NBC News poll respondents last month when they spoke about what kind of change they were looking for from the major presidential candidates ahead of November’s election.

ADVERTISING

That word, “change,” has become a crucial storyline in a presidential contest featuring a disgruntled electorate and two candidates who can make credible claims for that mantle — while also facing credible attacks about being part of the past.

Kamala Harris is the sitting vice president. Donald Trump is a former president. And two-thirds of voters believe the nation is headed in the wrong direction, with another two-thirds saying their families’ incomes are falling behind the cost of living.

The September NBC News poll found Harris with a 9-percentage-point advantage over Trump when registered voters were asked which candidate better represents change, with 47% picking Harris and 38% selecting Trump.

Follow live updates on the 2024 election

Yet on a separate “change” question, voters were split about whether they were more concerned that Harris would continue the approach of President Joe Biden (40% of voters in the poll said that), compared with those who were more concerned that Trump would continue the approach from his first term as president (39%).

Another 18% of voters said neither was a concern.

And the September poll asked a third, open-ended “change” question: When it comes to representing change and getting the country headed in the right direction, what are you looking for from the candidates running for president?

Harris voters responded in their own words with answers focused in particular on personal characteristics, like “competency,” “less division” and “normalcy” — as well as a desire to remove Trump from the political stage. Women's rights earned mentions, as well.

A word cloud of responses to the open-ended poll question about how Kamala Harris voters see her as representing change.
A word cloud of responses to the open-ended poll question about how Kamala Harris voters see her as representing change.
“I think they both represent change. It’s just that Kamala Harris represents positive change, and Donald Trump represents like, existential, terrible change,” said poll respondent Daniel D’Agustino, 33, of New York City.

Harris “represents somewhat of a return to normalcy, in the same way that Joe Biden did in 2020. So if she were to defeat Donald Trump in this upcoming election, I think that that would be the last nail in the coffin for his political career and kind of enable us as a country to move past just him,” D’Agustino added.