Wallabies finally have group of players to build World Cup squad around
Australia have improved since this year’s first Bledisloe, just how much will be determined when they meet the All Blacks again on Saturday week
Australia’s Michael Hooper embraces Jack Dempsey
Australia’s Michael Hooper embraces Jack Dempsey at the end of the match. Photograph: Marcos Brindicci/Reuters
The time for experimenting and blooding new players is over. With less than two years to go before the start of the 2019 World Cup in Japan Wallabies coach Michael Cheika must settle on his squad to develop the cohesion required to win the tournament.
Wallabies end Rugby Championship on winning note in Argentina
Cheika has chopped and changed the team, but with the completion of the Rugby Championship he now has a group of players to build the World Cup squad around.
New players such as second rower Izack Rodda, backrower Jack Dempsey and rugby league convert Marika Koroibete, a human cannonball in attack and defence, have joined the hard core of Michael Hooper, Kurtley Beale, Israel Folau, Bernard Foley, Sekope Kepu, Will Genia and Adam Coleman to give Cheika a team he can now develop for the World Cup.
During the Rugby Championship Cheika at times questioned the maturity of the players to close out games, particularly after their narrow loss to the All Blacks in Dunedin and their back-to-back drawn Tests with the Springboks.
While some players in the team are still green, it was more the collective maturity of the team that was lacking when small, but costly, errors were made. This can only be overcome by playing together consistently.
That is why Cheika’s decision to name an unchanged starting XV for the first time since he was appointed Wallabies coach in 2014 for the Test against Argentina in Mendoza was so significant.
Who would have thought the Wallabies would finish second in the Rugby Championship after they were thrashed by the All Blacks in the opening Test of the tournament in Sydney in August?
Since the blow out in the first half in Sydney, the Wallabies have been competitive in every Test they have played, albeit their only two wins have come at the expense of the winless Pumas.
With the Wallabies’ 37-20 win against Argentina on Saturday, Cheika has good reason to believe the building blocks are now in place with just David Pocock and Karmichael Hunt to return from sabbatical and injury respectively.
In a way the Wallabies’ five tries to two win in Mendoza was a perfunctory victory. They almost always beat the Pumas, don’t they? But this time they had to do it after enduring an exhausting travel schedule, having played the Springboks on the Highveld at Bloemfontein the week before.
Guardian Australia sport newsletter: subscribe by email
To be sure, the Pumas are only a 60-minute team. The game unfolded in much the same way as it did in the Wallabies’ 45-20 win against Argentina in Canberra.
The Pumas led 13-10 at half-time in Canberra, while the score was level at 13-all in Mendoza at the break, although the Pumas would have been ahead 20-13 if not for a knock on by Argentine captain Agustin Creevy leading to a try to Joaquin Tuculet being disallowed in the 39th minute. On both occasions the Wallabies got on top in the last 20 minutes.
But unlike Canberra, the Wallabies had to fight their way through severe fatigue in Mendoza, yet they still finished the stronger, a positive sign.
The Wallabies are not deluding themselves that they have won anything significant by retaining the Puma Trophy. There is still much to work on. There was confusion in the Wallabies’ mauling, especially early in the game in Mendoza, but that is something that can be rectified by playing regularly together.
While the Wallabies are now alive to the benefits of attacking off turnover ball, they still do not seem to grasp the fact that every player needs to have the skill to compete at the breakdown, not just the backrowers.
And they desperately need to develop a second goal-kicking option after five-eighth Bernard Foley suffered another case of the yips, ending a 19-goal run of successful kicks since his off-target effort in Dunedin.
But there is no doubt the Wallabies have improved since that first forgettable 40 minutes against the All Blacks in Sydney, just how much will be determined when they meet New Zealand again in Brisbane on Saturday week.
If the Wallabies could spring an upset or even just remain highly competitive, it would give Cheika confidence the team is on the right track for the World Cup, but if they suffer another devastating defeat, it will be back to the drawing board, a discouraging outcome at this stage in the four-year cycle.
It might be too late to start over again.