Twin brothers Cameron, Cayden Boozer commit to Duke basketball just like their father

Cameron and Cayden Boozer are taking the same college path their father once took to a national championship.

The fraternal twin sons of former NBA All-Star Carlos Boozer announced on social media Friday their commitment to play college basketball at Duke under coach Jon Scheyer.

Cameron Boozer, listed at 6-9, is considered the No. 2 prospect in the 2025 recruiting class in the 247 Sports Composite rankings, and he has been pegged by NBA scouts for years as a future top-five NBA draft pick. Cayden Boozer, a 6-4 point guard, is also considered a top-25 recruit in his class and could go in the lottery by the 2026 NBA draft.

The brothers reportedly chose Duke over their hometown school, Miami.

Cayden (left) and Cameron Boozer, twin sons of former NBA All-Star Carlos Boozer, are two of the top prospects in the 2025 class. In November, they visited Duke for the Blue Devils' game vs. Arizona at Cameron Indoor Stadium.
OPINION:Duke's Jon Scheyer faces unique pressure with top prospect Cooper Flagg on team

Carlos Boozer played three seasons at Duke for former coach Mike Krzyzewski (1999-2002) and scored more than 1,500 points. He was a member of Duke's 2001 national championship team and went on to a 13-year career in the NBA with four different teams.

Cameron and Cayden Boozer have put together a prolific prep career to this point, winning high school state championships at Christopher Columbus High School in Miami and Nike EYBL championships with their Florida-based AAU team the past three years. They also won gold medals playing for USA Basketball in two different age groups.

It's another big recruiting splash for Scheyer and Duke. The Blue Devils go into this season with a roster featuring Cooper Flagg, the projected No. 1 pick in the 2025 NBA draft. The Boozer Twins are slated to join the program for the 2025-26 campaign.

"Cameron Crazies, be ready for next season," Cayden Boozer said into the camera as both he and Cameron wore Duke jackets in a video posted to social media announcing their decision.