Christian Pulisic has already made quite the impression on his new boss.

Pulisic is “one of the best offensive players in the world,” new U.S. men’s national team coach Mauricio Pochettino said Friday. That’s not exactly a shocking revelation, given the season Pulisic is having at AC Milan.

He has six goals in nine games, and his five in Serie A are tied for third-most in the league. He also has two assists, meaning he’s had a hand in half of AC Milan’s goals this season.

But knowing he has a player of Pulisic’s caliber will make Pochettino’s task a little easier.

Pochettino is the most high-profile coach the USMNT has ever had. He’s been a fixture in European club soccer, taking Tottenham to the Champions League final and coaching Lionel Messi, Kylian Mbappe and Neymar at Paris Saint-Germain.

U.S. forward Christian Pulisic (10) controls the ball against Canada's Jonathan Osorio (21) on Sept. 7, 2024.
This is his first time coaching a national team, however, and there are less than two years before the next World Cup — a tournament the United States just so happens to be co-hosting with Canada and Mexico. Given that the future of American soccer will be shaped by how the USMNT fares in 2026, it is no small thing that Pochettino begins his tenure already knowing who the cornerstone of his team is.

“A great player. A fantastic player,” Pochettino said of Pulisic. “A player that is going to help us now and in the future, to put the team in a place that we want.”

The USMNT plays Panama on Saturday night in Pochettino’s first game, followed by another friendly Tuesday in Mexico against El Tri.

The USMNT has long relied on Pulisic, who seems like he’s been around forever despite just turning 26 last month. He is, without question, the most impressive player the United States has ever produced. His lists of firsts — first American to play in a Champions League final, first American to score in a Champions League semifinal, youngest player to score for the U.S. men, etc., etc. — is as long as his list of goals scored.

But the run he’s on now is the stuff players can only dream of. In his last 11 games for club and country, going back to August, he’s had a goal or an assist in all but three of them.

“It’s tough to explain,” Pulisic said. “I think you have moments in your career where it feels like everything you touch goes in. And you have other times when it feels like you’re trying everything and the ball just won’t go in. As an attacking player, we’ve all gone through it. So I’m just trying to live in that moment right now, when things seem to be going well and just continue like this.

“It’s a result of all the work I put in my whole life,” Pulisic added. “So it shouldn’t be a surprise. I know I have this ability and I’m just kind of riding that high, I guess.”

Despite his success, Pulisic has always been a reluctant superstar. Though he seems to be growing more comfortable with the commercial side of his job ahead of 2026 — he’s appearing in more commercials and has revealed a little more of his personal life on social media — it will never be a role he relishes.

“I still struggle with that stuff,” he said. “I guess I think it’s important for me to step out of my comfort zone a little bit.”

The larger challenge is going to be managing Pulisic’s workload, something Pochettino is uniquely suited for.

There has long been a tension between club and country. Players want to play for their country, and success with their national team can elevate a player’s profile. But it is the clubs who pay the players’ salaries and with whom they spend most of their time. If a player loses fitness while on national team duty or gets hurt, God forbid, it’s the club that suffers.

As a longtime club coach and now a national team manager, Pochettino is keenly aware of the balance that has to be struck.

Pulisic arrived at USMNT camp this week after playing three games in 10 days for AC Milan. When he returns, Milan has four games in 10 days, including a Champions League match. Add in 12-hour-plus travel days coming and going, and it's no surprise Pulisic was, as Pochettino described it, "a little bit tired" when he arrived at camp.

“Sometimes we need to protect (him),” Pochettino said. “... We are not going to take a risk with our players.”

With any of them. But especially not one as important to the USMNT, and Pochettino’s task, as Pulisic.