Dodgers silence Padres in Game 5 nail-biter, advance to NLCS vs. Mets: Highlights

The boisterous Los Angeles Dodgers fans stood on their feet Friday night, screamed so loud it could be heard in Pasadena and watched their beloved team wildly celebrate its biggest victory in years.

The Dodgers, in perhaps the most anticipated season in franchise history, took a giant step toward the World Series by swatting away the San Diego Padres, winning 2-0 in Game 5 of the National League Division Series at Dodger Stadium.

Next up: The New York Mets, who they will face Sunday in Game 1 of the National League Championship Series.

“We didn't come here to win the NL West," said Dodgers center fielder Enrique Hernandez, whose homer in the second inning was all they needed. “We came to win the World Series.’’

Dodgers starter Yoshinobu Yamamoto, the $325 million man, rose to the occasion just when his team needed him the most.

Follow every MLB game: Latest MLB scores, stats, schedules and standings.

He was brilliant for five innings, just giving up two hits and a walk, proving that the Dodgers made the right call giving him the ball despite his struggles against the Padres in Game 1.

The bullpen did the rest, and when the smoke cleared, the Dodgers had shut out the Padres in 24 consecutive innings.

The only time Yamamoto was ever in trouble was in the third inning when Kyle Higashioka and Luis Arráez produced back-to-back one-out singles, bringing up Fernando Tatis Jr., who has tormented the Dodgers.

Get the Sports newsletter in your inbox.
Sports news, no matter the season. Stop by for the scores, stay for the stories.

Delivery: Daily
Your Email
Yamamoto fell behind 3-and-1 but got Tatis to hit a weak ground ball to third baseman Max Muncy, starting a double play.

It was the last sign of life from the Padres’ offense.

Dodgers players celebrate the Game 5 win.
The Padres’ power outage ruined Yu Darvish’s spectacular outing – in which he and Yamamoto were the first Japanese pitchers to face one another in a postseason game. Darvish gave up just three hits and two runs in 6⅔ innings and overpowered Shohei Ohtani, who struck out three times Friday.

“For us to be able to go out there and pitch on the same day, a playoff game," Darvish said before his start, “it means a lot. … I think the level of baseball in Japan has risen and it's actually showing over here. So, it's really good to see all these players that come over here be successful."

These pitchers were so dominant that they retired 26 consecutive batters at one juncture, the longest streak in a single game in MLB postseason history.

Despite the brilliant pitching, it was the Hernández duo who stole the show.

Darvish had retired 14 consecutive batters after giving up the home run to Enrique Hernández, and then gave up another homer to cleanup hitter Teoscar Hernández on a 2-and-1 slider with one out in the seventh inning.

“This," Teoscar Hernández said, “is why I came here.’’

Still, it was Enrique Hernández who set the tone for the game. He was on the field two hours before game time, getting ready for batting practice, when he was summoned by Dodgers manager Dave Roberts and Andrew Friedman, president of baseball operations.

They talked intently by the batting cage for about 10 minutes, Hernandez excused himself, took a round of batting practice, and the conversation continued for another five minutes.

Well, whatever was said, whatever was expressed, whatever secrets that were exchanged, worked like a charm.

Hernández, jumping on the first pitch he saw from Darvish, sent his 94.7-mph fastball 429 feet away into the left-field seats. It was just the latest chapter of his October heroics. He now has 14 career postseason home runs.


“The way I see it," Hernández said, “is these types of games are the ones we've been dreaming of since we were little kids. You’ve got to have the right mindset, the right mentality, to come in here and just find a way to dominate the day.

“I think something that's worked for me is the fact that I've had a lot of experience in these moments."

The secret sauce, Hernández said, is visualizing success when he goes to bed the night before the game.

“There’s anxiety and things like that that we go through as athletes, especially in big situations, big games, especially in October" Hernández said. "And whenever you feel that little anxiety or whatever it is creep in, you just go back to visualizing yourself having success.

“You just find a way, whatever it is that you've got to find, so that when the big moment shows up, and you step up to the plate or whatever it is, you don't let the moment get too big. You feel like you're bigger than the moment and there's no moment that's going to get too big for you.

“That's my mentality."

This entire Dodgers team, of course, has been visualizing a World Series since spring training. They now find themselves eight victories away from finally having their first World Series parade since 1988.

The Dodgers won the World Series in 2020, but that was in the height of the pandemic, winning the championship at a neutral site in Arlington, Texas, returning home, and going back into isolation.

“If there's something that this crowd is,’’ Enrique Hernandez said, “it's hungry. They want a championship. They want another one. The one we had a couple years back, the city didn't get to celebrate it because of obvious circumstances.

“We know how bad they want it."

The only team that stands in their way now of a World Series berth is the Mets, the same team they stunned in 1988 in the NLCS before winning the World Series against the Oakland A’s.

But now that they’ve knocked off the Padres, who ended their season two years ago, they believe nothing can stop them.

“We have a lot of people that believe in each other,’’ Enrique Hernandez said. “We have a bullpen that does not care at all whatsoever, and they're nasty. We have a high-octane offense.

“We’re hungry. We want it. We're in it together."