NFL picks, predictions Week 6: Jacksonville Jaguars vs. Chicago Bears

NFL picks, predictions Week 6: Jacksonville Jaguars vs. Chicago Bears image
It wasn’t pretty, but the Jacksonville Jaguars scored a huge, 37-34 win over the Indianapolis Colts in Week 5, a game that could end up being a turning point for the Jags if they can work their way back into the AFC mix. 

The Chicago Bears, meanwhile, got the breakout performance fans have been waiting for ever since the franchise drafted Caleb Williams No. 1 overall in April. Williams passed for 304 yards and two scores last week in Chicago’s 36-10 drubbing of the Carolina Panthers. 

Next, the Jaguars (1-4) and Bears (3-2) meet up at Tottenham Hotspur Stadium in London (8:30 a.m. EST) for a game that’s huge for both sides. 

For Jacksonville, a win at its home away from home — Sunday will mark the franchise’s 12th game in London and third at Tottenham Hotspur — could change the trajectory of its season. With a bad New England Patriots team traveling to London to face the Jaguars in Week 7, the team has a path back to relevance that was hard to see during its 0-4 slump to start 2024.

As for Chicago, it's trying to keep pace in a loaded NFC North division. The Bears have three wins, but they find themselves tied with the Green Bay Packers (3-2) and behind the Detroit Lions (3-1) and surging Minnesota Vikings (5-0) in the division standings. 

Can the Jaguars improve on their 6-5 all-time record playing in London? Here’s what the experts are saying about their Week 6 matchup.

NFL picks, predictions Week 6: Jaguars vs. Bears
Vinnie Iyer, Sporting News: Bears 24, Jaguars 20
Iyer: “It took 2021 No. 1 overall pick Trevor Lawrence celebrating his 25th birthday last Sunday to put up a needed big game to lift Jacksonville to its first victory of the season. But there's no winning streak in Jacksonville's home away from home in London. The Bears have gotten hot with 2024 No. 1 overall pick Caleb Williams, who will take advantage of another weak pass defense with his streamlined weapons, DJ Moore, D'Andre Swift, and Cole Kmet. Even more good rushing success from the Jaguars won't be enough across the pond.”

Bill Bender, Sporting News: Bears 29, Jaguars 24
Bender: “Are the Bears for real? Chicago has a plus-5 turnover ratio the past two weeks, and that has been a difference-maker for rookie quarterback Caleb Williams, who should continue to have success against Jacksonville's league-worst pass defense (287.8 yards per game). There is risk of overhyping this matchup since the Jags got their first win, but stick with the Bears in what could be an unpredictable game in London.”

Jeremy Cluff, Arizona Republic: Bears 27, Jaguars 17
Cluff: “How good is the NFC North? The Bears are 3-2 and tied for last in the division. Caleb Williams and Chicago will be too much for the Jaguars at home.”

Matt Johnson, Sportsnaut: Bears 28, Jaguars 20
Johnson: “The Chicago Bears are taking full advantage in this softer stretch of their schedule. In the last two weeks, Caleb Williams has a 100-plus QB rating with 3 touchdowns and over 450 passing yards. Now, he takes on a Jacksonville Jaguars defense that is allowing the most passing yards per game. It bodes well for this steadily improving Bears’ offense and Chicago’s defense matches up pretty well with Jacksonville’s offense.”

Ben Rolfe, Pro Football Network: Bears 27, Jaguars 17
Rolfe: “The Jacksonville Jaguars offense also found some life this week in scoring 37 points. That was quite the change for a team that hadn’t scored more than 20 points in the first four weeks. Jacksonville still has major problems on defense, allowing 34 points and ranking 31st in defensive EPA per game across the first five weeks. Both offenses benefited from playing below-average defenses in Week 5, but only the Bears get to face another bad defense this week. The Jaguars are unlikely to be able to outscore Chicago against their strong defense, and Jacksonville’s defense isn’t good enough. Give me the Bears at home on any line lower than five or six points.”