Anthony Crolla edges Ricky Burns while Chris Eubank Jr stops Avni Yildirim
• Crolla earns win by unanimous decision at Manchester Arena 
• Eubank Jr wins World Boxing Super Series fight in Stuttgart
Anthony Crolla, right, and Ricky Burns exchange blows during the lightweight contest at Manchester Arena.
Anthony Crolla came away victorious as he edged out his domestic rival Ricky Burns by unanimous decision in their lightweight bout at Manchester Arena.
Crolla was the brighter of the two fighters in the early exchanges but the 34-year-old Burns worked his way into the bout as they counter-punched each other throughout the 12 rounds in an engaging tactical contest which could have gone either way.
All three judges called the bout in Crolla’s favour with the scores of 116-113, 117-112, 116-114 to inflict the Scot’s seventh defeat of his professional career. The Englishman believed he did enough to extend his record to 32 wins from his 41 professional fights and is targeting another world title shot.
He said: “Yeah, I thought I’d definitely done enough. He just kept coming. He gave me a very tough fight, but I thought my quality shots won it. I owe these people another world title, the way they get behind me, it’s nothing but love.”
However, Burns disagreed with the judges’ decision: “Although it was close, I thought I did enough to edge it. I thought I landed the cleaner shots. In my eyes, I thought I just edged it.”
Chris Eubank Jr produced a clinical display to stop Avni Yildirim inside three rounds of the first fight of the super-middleweight edition of the World Boxing Super Series in Stuttgart.
Eubank Jr, the IBO champion, maintained his momentum from a strong start when the Turkish fighter was almost felled by a right uppercut in the opening round, dropping to his knee before taking a standing count.
Yildirim, who weighed in at the 12st weight limit and was previously undefeated from 16 professional fights with 10 knockouts, recovered for the second, when he started to find range with his jab.
However, Eubank Jr stepped things up again in round three. Yildirim was left exposed by a flurry of rapid punches from the Briton before being put down by a fierce left hook which prompted the referee to immediately step in after one minute and 58 seconds, with the Turk still sprawled on the canvas, and call a halt to the one-sided contest.
Eubank Jnr, who had fought outside the United Kingdom only once previously, will now take on the winner of next week’s fight between Jamie Cox and George Groves. “I am here to dominate this tournament. I am sending a message out there that I am coming,” he said at ringside, broadcast on ITV Box Office.
Despite the superb show from the British boxer, who should now be in line to meet David Benavidez for the WBC super-middleweight title, there had earlier been some crowd trouble at the Hanns-Martin-Schleyer Halle before the main bout.
Pictures published online and social media from the event showed fighting between rival groups, with chairs being thrown and some men left blooded.